NLP - Positive and negative reviews classification

You’re given a dataset of product reviews by customers. The task is simply to classify reviews
as positive or negative ones, achieving the best balanced accuracy you can. However, yoursolution should also be efficient and capable of running even on lower-tier machines. We don’t
set any strict conditions besides the solution not requiring GPU and running reasonably fast on
lower-end CPUs, but your creativity and skills in terms of squeezing the best performance from
lightweight pipelines will be appreciated. While the main output of your work is the inference
code for us to test it, we encourage you to also provide any additional code/notebooks (EDA,
training, etc.). Their good quality will be an advantage.
The dataset is provided as 2 standard comma-separated CSV files. Each of them contains
review IDs and either reviews themselves or their labels, respectively. Your solution will be
evaluated on a private test dataset that is sampled from the same data distribution as the one
provided to you. Feel free to train your model on the provided dataset from scratch or use
third-party datasets for pretraining.
When delivering your solution, the inference code should be placed in a separate script called
inference.py. It should be possible to install all the necessary packages to run it from
requirements.txt using pip. All the additional files, like saved model parameters, should be
placed near the inference script and loaded automatically. The inference script should accept an
input file and write classification results into an output file in the same format as the provided
dataset. A command to run your script should look as follows:
python3 inference.py test_reviews.csv test_labels_pred.csv
All the additional code can be provided either as plain Python scripts or Jupyter notebooks
without any specific requirements for their interface. You’re encouraged to add a README on
how to use them properly.
Deliverable:
● Working training and inference code,
● Any necessary supplementary files,
● A short report [in English] on the principle of operation of your solution (better with some
illustrations)
